being found below 5000 feet, both near Dueñas and at Tactic in Vera Paz, and also occurring in some numbers in the pine-forests of the summit of the Volcan de Fuego, as high as 12,000 feet, and in the main Cordillera above Totonicapam at a height of 10,500 feet. It does not seem to be found only in one class of forest; for the plains near Dueñas, where Ipomœa murocoides abounds, the oak-forests of the volcano, and the pine-forests of the upper parts, the pine-tracts of Quezaltenango and Totonicapam, and the forests it frequents in Vera Paz are each very different in character. It, however, is not so much an inhabitant of the belt of dense forest of mixed trees which surrounds the volcano between 7000 and 10,000 feet; and it is altogether absent from the forests of the hotter parts of Guatemala, which lie below 4000 feet.
We never found Turdus rufitorques breeding; but as birds were observed about Dueñas and Quezaltenango in the month of August, it is probable that they had built in the vicinity of those places. It is not, however, a migratory species, except, perhaps, in a very limited sense.
The habits of T. rufitorques recall those of T. merula. It is rather shy, generally keeping out of gunshot. Its powers of song are not remarkable, and are certainly inferior to those of T. grayi.
The curious rufous ring which surrounds the neck of this Thrush recalls the similar feature in the plumage of T. albicincta of the Himalayas. The American bird, however, is of not nearly so robust a form as the Asiatic species; and there are other differences between them.
15. Turdus pinicola.
Turdus pœcilopterus, Licht. Mus. Berol. (fide Sclater), nec Nomencl. Av. p. 25.
Turdus pinicola, Scl. P. Z. S. 1859, pp. 3341, 3622, 1860, p. 2503, 1864, p. 1724; Scl. Cat. Am. B. p. 6, pl. 15; Sumichrast, Mem. Bost. Soc. N. H. i. p. 5436.
♂ fusco-niger, capitis et dorsi plumarum scapis brunneis; alarum tectricibus majoribus fumido albo late limbatis, primariorum parte basali extus et intus macula magna alba occupata, apicibus eorum et secundariorum grisescenti-albo terminatis; primariis tertio, quarto et quinto extus macula alba apicem versus ornatis, secundariis medialiter albo extus marginatis; cauda nigra, hujus tectricibus superioribus et rectricum apicibus albis; abdomine cum crisso et tectricibus alarum inferioribus albis; rostro nigro, pedibus flavis. Long. tota 8·5, alæ 5·3, caudæ 3·4, rostri a rictu 1·0, tarsi 1·1. (Descr. exempl. ex Mexico. Mus. nostr.)
♀ brunnescentior, coloribus dilutioribus, gutture et pectore toto brunneis colore pallidiore marmoratis. (Descr. fem. ex Jalapa. Mus. P. L. S.)
Juv. supra capitis et dorsi plumis late ochraceis, dorsi postici ferrugineis; subtus flavidus plumis singulis nigro marginatis. (Descr. juv. ex Oaxaca. Mus. nostr.)
Hab. MEXICO, Jalapa (de Oca1), Orizaba (Sallé3), valley of Mexico (White4, le Strange), Moyoapam (Sumichrast6), Oaxaca (Fenochio).
Though specimens of Turdus pinicola seem to have been in the Berlin Museum for some years, under the unpublished name of T. pœcilopterus, no published name was given
